# Clinical experience obtained with the device so far

- March 2020 - March 2021 : the device was in the development phase, tested on 3 subjects to correctly set up parameters such as the degree of freedom of 
the angle for how much could the device be rotated in order to point int towards the desired position on the patient's body. Other tests included 
checking the frequency content obtained from different body location. 

- April 2021 - Semptember 2021 : First validation trial. Ethcis approval were obtained from the University of Glasgow ethics department. In total, 13 
volunteers were recruited, although for the paper only the data from 10 volunteers was kept. The desciption of the results can be found in this 
[paper](https://pages.github.com/). 13 volunteers, chosen from the department of Engineering from the UoG were recruited. At the beginning of the trial, 1 volunteer was diagnosed with a heart condition while 14 of the volunteers considered themselves as healthy, as they never reeived a diagnosis or had heart related problems that warranted a visit to the hospital. The volunteers were between 20 and 40 years of age, both males and females. 
The volunteers were asked to sit in a chair and brathe normally while the laser was pointed at the base of their neck (chosen location for acquisition after the previous development phase tests). Despite the laser power only being 0.04 mW, so eye safe, the volunteers were given the option to wear eye
protective goggles acquired from the leading indutry vendor ThorLabs. The goggles were certified to be in good condition from engineerign experts. The goggles were made to block the laser frequency that was used by the device. Around 5 minutes of data was acquired from the volunteers on two different occasion, so the volunteers had to come during two different occasions. There was no required timelaspe between the two events. They could come in whenever they gave availability during a week. The laser power was very low so it was not only eye safe, but it also did not burn the skin. The volunteers were asked if they had experienced any unconfortableness during or afetr the trial but none of them reported any problems. The volunteers had to sign a document where they agreed to take part on the trial and agree that their data would be used in a research paper but that it would be anonymized. After the data processing step of the data collected, it was found that 1 vilunteer had a severe heart condition that they werent aware of. The volunteer went ahead to see a cardiologist that confirmed the diagnosis picked up by the device. The volunteer displayed no other symptoms. The diagnosis of all the other volunteers was consistent with theor previous status.


